# my_goal_wallet
Project Name : My Goal Wallet App.

Description: My Goal Wallet App is a straightforward Flutter application that illustrates how weekly savings are calculated. The target amount, weekly planned savings, starting balance, and goal type are the four inputs that the user should enter. It will compute and display the number of weeks and days the user must save in order to reach the desired amount based on those inputs.

Inputs:
The user needs to enters these 4 inputs, which include 3 text fields and 1 drop-down button:
a. Target Amount
b. Planning Saving
c. Starting Balance
d. Goal Type

Process:
1. Once the user clicks the Calculate button, it will do the error handling and simple calculation.
2. It will do the validation check to ensure all input fields are valid:
    a. Target amount must be greater than 0.
    b. Planning savings must be greater than 0.
    c. Starting balance must be 0 or more.
3. It will calculate the remaining amount first using this formula (remaining = target - startBalance).
4. Check if the target is already reached; if the remaining <= 0, it will show a dialog message saying that the target is already reached.
5. It will calculate required time:
    a. Week needed using this formula (remaining / savePerWeek).
    b. Calculate the exact weeks and extra days.
    b. Convert the leftover into days.

Output:
The result will be shown in AlertDialog, more like a popup message, which includes a message telling the user how long they need to reach their target amount in week(s) and day(s).

Widget List Used:
a. Text - to display labels, titles and messages.
b. TextField - to allow user to input target amount, weekly saving and starting balance.
c. DropDownButton - to let the user select goal type for saving (etc: education, vacation).
d. ElevatedButton - to trigger the calculation process when the user click it.
e. Row/Column - to arrange the widgets vertically and horizontally in the UI.
f. Container - to provide layout structure, styling, padding and spacing.
g. AlertDialog - to show the result.

Basic Validation Approach:
a. Convert input from TextField using double.tryParse()
b. Validate each input:
    - Target amount must be greater than 0.
    - Planning saving must be greater than 0.
    - Starting balance must be 0 or more.
c. If any input is incorrect:
    - A specific error flag which are (targetError, savingError, balanceError) is set to true.
    - The calculation stops.
    -TextField showing a red border to show error indicators.
d. If input are valid:
    - The app completes the calculation and displays a dialog with results.

Authorship Note with signature: 

SITI AIN ATHIQAH BINTI SAHRUN (297545)
(NAME and MATRIC)
“I confirm that this project represents my own original work in accordance with academic integrity policies. No part of the code was fully generated by AI tools such as ChatGPT or GitHub Copilot. I relied solely on lecture notes, class tutorials, and official Flutter documentation. I understand that my work may be scrutinized, and if it is found that I did not personally develop the code, marks may be deducted, or the submission may be disqualified.”






